
Started the day with a run and a workout in the park. Physical health is important, folks!

### RC Activities
Participated in the pair programming workshop here at RC. 
The problem statement was "Implement the game of life", but we had way to little time to actually fully implement it.
I was paired with Wong D, who turned out to be a) very nice and b) very experienced in Functional Programming,
so whenever in my hurry I'd reach for a side effect he'd say 
"well, wouldn't it be better if we stayed pure here and pushed out the side effect to the edge of the program?" (or something like that) - which is of course correct!

Immediately afterwards, it was "Daily Leetcode" time for the first time!
We had two problems, an "easy" one and an "intermediate" one.

The "easy" one [344. Reverse a string](https://leetcode.com/problems/reverse-string) was in fact easy.
Though after feeling like it was definitely too easy after solving it in Ruby by calling `s.reverse!` I redid it in Java.

The "intermediate" one [241. Different Ways to Add Parentheses](https://leetcode.com/problems/different-ways-to-add-parentheses/) was definitely too hard given the time constraints 
(at least for me, but apparently also for every one else participating)

### C
After that I continued with the C track on [exercism.com](http://www.exercism.com). 
After a good start, I encountered a problem that made me reach for a map (the data structure, not the function) and it turned out that C doesn't have that either.
That was the moment when I realized that C might, in fact, not be what I'm looking for - sorry for the confusion!
Fortunately I think what I learned yesterday about stack vs heap and the phases of compilation still carries over.

### C++
So Bjarne Stroustrup and his *A Tour of C++* came to the rescue.
It is definitely a (whirlwind) tour of C++, but here are some things that surprised/delighted me the most: 
- C++ has default arguments (take that, Java!)
- C++ has optionals and tagged union types (cool!)
- C++ has a "member initialization list" syntax for constructors, i.e. `Vector(int s) : elem{new double[s]}, sz{s} {}` 
- The universal syntax for initialization is not with `=`, but with curlies, like `double d {2.5};`
- C++ does not have string interpolation (at least until C++20 and its `std::parse` function)
 
It also contained definitions of words that had been in my vocabulary forever, 
but that I had never considered like that:
- A *type* defines a set of possible values and operations
- A *value* is a set of bits interpreted according to a type
- An *object* is a piece of memory that holds a value of some type
- A *variable* is a named object

### Pointers and references, * and &
The book also explained, with delightful clarity, pointers and references.
Here I want to recap this to solidify my understanding.  
In a declaration...  
`int* p` is a pointer  
`int[] is` is an array  
`int& i` means `reference to`

In an expression...  
`*` means `contents of` and   
`&` means `address of`

So given the example 
```
int x = 42;
int* p = &x;
```
and armed with that understanding line 2 simply reads "a pointer to the address of x". How simple, how obvious!

One important difference between a pointer and a reference is what happens during assignment.
Consider the following example:
```
int x = 2;
int y = 3;
int* p = &x; 
int* q = &y;
int& rx = x;
int& ry = y;
```
For a pointer: `p = q` means that now `p` also points to the memory address of `y`.  
For a reference: After initialization, a reference cannot be made to point to a different object. 
Instead `rx = ry` "goes through" so to speak and the value that `ry` refers to is assigned to the object that `rx` refers to,
i.e. afterwards `x == 3`




