Today was my first day at the [Recurse Center](https://recurse.com)

Two of the main things I did today was join the official introductory meetings and set up this blog. 


Other than that I mostly worked on learning C (for the third time [0]). Here are the most important things I learned from reading the book *21st Century C* by Ben Klemens, asking Wikipedia about things I didn't understand, working on some [exercism.com](https://www.exercism.com) exercises and asking StackOverflow some more thinngs I didn't understand.

*Epistemic Status: Based on preliminary understanding. When you find a mistake, please let me know at [gernot.ohner@gmail.com](mailto:gernot.ohner@gmail.com).*

### Stack vs Heap [1]
Every function has a space in memory, called a frame, where information about it, e.g. where to return to after it completes, is stored. 
What also goes in there is the space for automatically allocated variables.

When this function calls another function, this new function also gets a frame that is put "on top" of the old one, etc. So you get a *stack* of frames.
When a function completes, the frame is discarded (and thus all automatically allocated variables are destroyed), the frame of the old function is "on top" again, and you have nice LIFO behavior.

Whenever you manually allocated memory (i.e. with `malloc` or `calloc`), that memory is allocated not on the stack but in the heap.

One further difference between the stack and the heap is their size.
Even on modern computers the stack is in the single digit Megabytes.
There are various ways to discover this. On the one hand, a quick google search tells me that on Windows it's usually 1 MB, and on Linux 8 MB.
On the other hand, finding your stack size on linux is as simple as `ulimit -s` or `ulimit -a`, which gives me a value of 8192, i.e. 8 MB.

The heap size is typically not limited, so programs have access to all the available memory space.

### You can't return an array from a function

A consequence of the above point is that, you can't really return an array from a function the way you would in any of the languages I'm used to, 
since when you initialize an array inside a function like this
```c
int an_array[32];
```
that's automatically allocated memory and thus gets cleaned up when the function returns.

So there are three ways to work around this.
1) You can allocated the memory yourself with `malloc` and return a pointer there. 
This works because, as mentioned above, the memory is then allocated on the heap and not cleaned up when the function returns. 
The disadvantage is that the caller is responsible for cleaning up by calling `free`.
2) You can initialize the array outside the function and pass it in. 
Then the function will have return type `void` (unless it does anything else, but I think that would be bad style) and fill the array as a side effect.
3) You can return a static array.

### Phases of Compilation in C [2]
When I mention the actual utilities, I'm always talking about the GCC version. 
It's my understanding that there is a complete alternative toolchain called LLVM, which is used by
among other projects, macOS.
1. Preprocessing. This is where all the preprocessing directives (lines in a .c or .h file starting with #) are executed.
   Examples include: replacing `#include <stdio.h>` with the actual code of `stdio.h` and expanding macros.
Once upon a time this was done by `cpp` (the C Preprocessor, not to be confused with anything related to C++), 
but nowadays, it's also done by `cc1`
    The result of this step is called a "translation unit" (more informally, also a "compilation unit")
2. Compilation. The translation units are transformed into assembly source code by `cc1`, the first phase of the C compiler.
3. `as` ("the portable GNU assembler") transforms the assembly source code into so-called "object code"
4. Linking: `ld` ("the GNU linker") links the object code and library code

[0] the first time was all the way back in school. The second time was during my physics degree. 
Though I would argue that spending 2 hours a week for 6 weeks on it does not constitute "learning C" in any meaningful sense. 

[1] 21st Century C by Ben Klemens and Wikipedia

[2] [StackOverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/12907115/does-the-c-programming-language-have-a-runtime) and Wikipedia
